Elon Musk is a business magnate and investor. He is the founder, chairman, CEO and chief technology officer of SpaceX; angel investor, CEO, product architect and former chairman of Tesla, Inc.; owner, chairman and CTO of X Corp.; founder of the Boring Company; co-founder of Neuralink and OpenAI; and president of the Musk Foundation. He is the wealthiest person in the world, with an estimated net worth of US$226 billion as of September 2023, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index, and $249 billion according to Forbes, primarily from his ownership stakes in both Tesla and SpaceX.

Musk was born in South Africa and moved to Canada at the age of 17 to avoid compulsory military service. He attended Queen's University in Kingston, Ontario, and transferred to the University of Pennsylvania two years later, where he received an economics degree from the Wharton School and a degree in physics from the College of Arts and Sciences.

After graduating from college, Musk moved to California to pursue a career in business. He co-founded Zip2, a web software company, in 1995. The company was acquired by Compaq Computers in 1999 for $307 million. Musk then co-founded X.com, an online financial services company, which merged with Confinity in 2000 to form PayPal. PayPal was acquired by eBay in 2002 for $1.5 billion.

In 2002, Musk founded SpaceX, a private space exploration company. SpaceX has developed the Falcon 9 rocket and the Dragon spacecraft, which have been used to launch satellites and cargo to the International Space Station. In 2012, SpaceX became the first private company to successfully launch a spacecraft to the International Space Station.

In 2004, Musk became a major investor in Tesla Motors, an electric car company. He became the chairman and product architect of the company in 2008. Tesla has since become the world's leading electric car manufacturer.

Musk has also founded a number of other companies, including Neuralink, a neurotechnology company that is developing brain-computer interfaces; OpenAI, a non-profit research company that promotes friendly artificial intelligence; and The Boring Company, a tunnel construction company that is developing a system of underground tunnels to alleviate traffic congestion.

Musk is a controversial figure. He has been criticized for his erratic behavior and his tweets, which have sometimes been seen as misleading or offensive. However, he is also seen as a visionary entrepreneur who is pushing the boundaries of what is possible.

In 2022, Musk acquired Twitter for $44 billion. He has said that he plans to make Twitter a more open and free platform for speech.